Helena Rouhe: Hello.
Laura Sanchez: Hello.
Laura Sanchez: Are you, Laura Yes I'm Laura.
Helena Rouhe: Hi, Laura. Thank you for meeting with me. I'm halina Rohit I'm the program director for bright heart health, and I'll be leading group today.
Helena Rouhe: I'm double checking to see if Margaret Johnstone, a nurse practitioner who specializes in mental health that she's going to be able to join us. She may have had to
Helena Rouhe: Meet with another patient due to an emergency. So we will do our best to touch base and get this process started. And then we can kind of go from there.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, do you have any questions, concerns for me. Otherwise, I'll kind of jump in with just kind of what brought you to us and get a little bit of history and see what we can do to help
Laura Sanchez: I'm no good.
Helena Rouhe: Okay. So what brought you to us, what's kind of the basics for
Helena Rouhe: Your meeting with me today.
Laura Sanchez: Um, well, I wanted to
Laura Sanchez: Get help for depression and anxiety.
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: And have you experienced those kinds of feelings before
Mm hmm.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, this is just the first time that I'm reaching out
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so what was the first time you started experiencing those ideas, feelings of depression and anxiety.
Laura Sanchez: Well, I'm 28 now and I was 18 I feel like I i went two or three years, feeling this way.
Laura Sanchez: Okay, then I kind of, you know, suppress the feelings me, but I feel like now for the past, maybe
Laura Sanchez: Six or seven months, I've been kind of experiencing those same feelings, but just
Laura Sanchez: Unable to shake the sun is
Helena Rouhe: When you first experienced those feelings had anything. It doesn't have to be that there's any kind of event, but was there anything going on in your life that was kind of antagonizing those feelings were you changing school or anything going on with family or work environment.
Laura Sanchez: Well, when I was 18 i think i definitely struggled with college okay but like the transition
And
Laura Sanchez: I was in culinary school. So that was really stressful for me.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, and
Laura Sanchez: So I fast forward to now I feel like
Laura Sanchez: I'm unemployed, because of the corona. I'm feeling extra lonely and I went through a breakup last month.
Laura Sanchez: But I do feel like the breakup and the relationship. I had a lot to do with with the ceilings.
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: Is this your first significant relationship or if you had other significant relationships in the past.
Laura Sanchez: About other significant relationships. Yes.
Helena Rouhe: Okay. And when you have Breakups are things didn't work out in those relationships to just you kind of go through something similar. It doesn't sound like it sounds like you were able to kind of whether those storms little differently.
Laura Sanchez: No, sorry. No, um,
Laura Sanchez: I, I think I kind of just like I said try to just surprise.
Laura Sanchez: I guess just
Laura Sanchez: overthinking the situation.
Helena Rouhe: And I just jumped into other relationships.
I guess.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, just to not feel like I have to deal with.
Laura Sanchez: But just going through a breakup. I, I didn't go. I didn't do that.
Helena Rouhe: Okay. So do you think that you've been kind of doing some different levels of distraction. Just kind of keeping yourself busy from one thing to the next that you don't have to necessarily deal with your feelings.
Laura Sanchez: Here and maybe not working and not really reaching out to friends or talking to people mean kind of just sit and think about all these thoughts that I have
Helena Rouhe: So was there a time period when you would reach out to friends and talk to people. Okay, here's Miss Margaret, she's going to join us here in just a minute.
Okay.
margaret johnstone: Hello.
Helena Rouhe: Hi, Mark, how are you
margaret johnstone: How are you doing,
Helena Rouhe: Good. We have Laura here with us today and Laura and I were just touching base. She's kind of struggling with feelings of depression and anxiety. She's just kind of giving me a little bit of a rundown of our history.
Helena Rouhe: As first started showing up to 28 now which is first started showing up when she was 18 and she's recognized the last six to seven months. Thanks, have
Helena Rouhe: Or maybe eight months. Sorry, that things have gotten a little bit more ramped up for her and that she is not necessarily doing a good job of reaching out to friends and family to kind of acknowledge her feelings.
Helena Rouhe: She wasn't calling every school and is currently not working to to co bid. She was also in a significant relationship that broke up about a month ago. Is that right, Lord.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, and how long was that relationship.
Laura Sanchez: Um, two years.
Helena Rouhe: Two years. Okay. And so what I was just asking Laura as you're joining us Margaret is
Helena Rouhe: Laura. Have you had an opportunity in the past to kind of reach out to people when you struggle, then you feel like you're not doing a good job of that now, or do you feel like maybe that was always something that's a bit of a challenge for you. Some of us are not good at reaching out
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, that was always a challenge for me. I
Laura Sanchez: I'd kind of lost touch with a lot of my friends, you know, through the years, so I didn't feel like I had someone specific to reach out to, um,
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: Was there any particular reason. I mean we grow up and people move and they go to different schools and they do different things. Is it more along that lines or was there anything that yeah
Helena Rouhe: Okay. And so in the past or for any reason. Did you ever seek out a therapist or counselor or a mental health practitioner of any kind.
Laura Sanchez: Of when I was 18 my warm, sign me up for therapist here locally, and I was seeing her for about two months and maybe I just didn't
Laura Sanchez: Feel like she was a right person for me so I kind of
Helena Rouhe: Fit. Yeah. Did you ever take any medicine for your
Laura Sanchez: No, she never prescribed me with anything.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so just as an FYI. And the reason why we have two of us joining you here as opposed to just you and I meeting is that as a therapist is a licensed therapist. I don't have the ability to prescribe because I'm not a medical provider.
Helena Rouhe: But Margaret Johnstone isn't medical provider and she has a specialty of working with people who struggle with mental health issues. And so that's why both of us being here. I can kind of get a sense of history and a little bit of what's
Helena Rouhe: You know what you're struggling with, and then Margaret can kind of speak to it more from the medical side and
Helena Rouhe: Identify you know possible options. They're just, you know, further clarify. So that's why why we have two people here. I know it's kind of strange like, what is going on all these people were going to the janitor. Next, like what
margaret johnstone: Is happening here.
Helena Rouhe: This is it. This is our group, nobody else's joining
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so
margaret johnstone: Hello, Laura. Tell me a little bit about your depression. Oh, have you ever had any suicidal thoughts.
Laura Sanchez: Um, yes I have.
I'm
Laura Sanchez: Like I said, it was around the period when I turned 18
Till around
Laura Sanchez: The time that I turned 20
Laura Sanchez: But I kind of learned to suppress suppress the feelings or suppressing these sad or depressive
Thoughts
Laura Sanchez: But I feel
Laura Sanchez: That I bottled up those feelings for a long time.
Laura Sanchez: And just recently I decided to
Laura Sanchez: Put a vested Omar because I did have suicidal thoughts.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, I felt like
Laura Sanchez: I should reach out to to get help. Before I went through with something
margaret johnstone: That was really good decision.
margaret johnstone: Really good. Yeah. And did it help you staying there.
Laura Sanchez: Um,
Laura Sanchez: I liked going to groups and talking about how to deal with stress. But I just felt like it was extra lonely.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, pretty isolated.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, did they start you on any medications there.
Laura Sanchez: Um, yes. I started Prozac.
Laura Sanchez: 20 milligrams on
Laura Sanchez: This drill, but I don't take that daily
margaret johnstone: Okay, and the visceral during our did they tell you to use that
Laura Sanchez: Whenever I feel
Laura Sanchez: Like thoughts if I'm getting too much anxiety.
margaret johnstone: tinting
margaret johnstone: Mm hmm.
Laura Sanchez: So you've been. I've been. Clean okay so far for the past week.
margaret johnstone: That's great.
Laura Sanchez: That's great.
margaret johnstone: But then the visceral will help it will help you feel calmer.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, it might make you a little bit tired though.
margaret johnstone: How are you sleeping right now.
Laura Sanchez: Um, it's hard for me to fall asleep.
Laura Sanchez: And I'm also a light sleeper. So I haven't really gotten much sleep since I left on this little more, especially in there. I was taking Prozac, but I just think it was just noise in there was no
Laura Sanchez: I just haven't been sleeping correctly.
margaret johnstone: And how many hours do you think you got last night.
Laura Sanchez: Fell asleep poke around 1am and I woke up at seven. So, about six hours. So actually, that was, that was a good night.
margaret johnstone: Okay, well, that's the minimum you need you need cold. Yeah, because your, your brain heals. When you're sleeping and you really want to get a good night's rest and feel rested.
Laura Sanchez: And they're
margaret johnstone: Really good for your brain because your brains been under tremendous stress. Yeah. So are you having any of the suicidal thoughts now.
Laura Sanchez: No, not since I left the studio in LA.
Laura Sanchez: Or not since I got there. So I've just been surrounding myself.
Laura Sanchez: With my family and I really supported
margaret johnstone: Good. That's a good rule to stay around supportive people. Okay, tell me a little bit. How about
margaret johnstone: Panic attacks, things like that. You have a history.
Laura Sanchez: Well,
Laura Sanchez: Panic attacks. I've only had them maybe two or three times in my life.
Laura Sanchez: And I feel like the last time was last Thursday. And I feel like that was caused by kind of just being alone and drinking alcohol.
margaret johnstone: Mm hmm.
Laura Sanchez: And I feel like instead of relaxing with alcohol just kind of went a little manic
margaret johnstone: Can you tell me how much alcohol, you're drinking
Laura Sanchez: Um, well, since I've been unemployed. I've been drinking almost every day about a glass of wine a day or sometimes I drink like two or three margaritas a day.
Laura Sanchez: Just depends on, on the day
margaret johnstone: So you have some alcohol every day. But how many times a week. Would you have two or three margaritas.
Laura Sanchez: Oh, like once or once
Laura Sanchez: Just one.
margaret johnstone: So in any alcohol, since you got out of the hospital.
Laura Sanchez: No, they didn't tell me not to drink, but I just feel like it's the right thing to do, to just kind of lay off alcohol for a little bit. I
margaret johnstone: Think you're very smart.
margaret johnstone: Now I'm going to tell you if you can you really need to lay off alcohol there. The Prozac will not work if you're taking drinking
margaret johnstone: For x that it can alcohol will counteract the effects of the Prozac.
margaret johnstone: Okay, and it and one drink when you're taking Prozac will feel like two or three
Laura Sanchez: Oh, OK.
margaret johnstone: stronger effect on you and it counteracts the on it and I depressant effect.
margaret johnstone: If you can, I would I would stop drinking for a while and consider long term very limited use
Okay.
Laura Sanchez: I can do that.
margaret johnstone: Great, great.
margaret johnstone: Um,
margaret johnstone: So tell me a little bit about
margaret johnstone: Your family you're you're you're staying with your family now.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, um, I was actually staying at my ex boyfriend sounds, um, for two months, but now I'm back home.
Laura Sanchez: Because of the brick go
Laura Sanchez: I'm comfortable or I am I have my own room. I, I have a good dynamic with my sisters. I have three sisters. Um, but they're all one of them works for Amazon. So I don't really see her at all.
Laura Sanchez: Lily. The one I'm the middle child who went after me.
Laura Sanchez: She's the one that helped me through this and she
Laura Sanchez: She went to this little more, and she's also on medication for depression and anxiety as well.
Laura Sanchez: So I have the closest bond with her and have a younger sister who is 17 and she's still home and you know doing schoolwork. So, but it's, I feel like there's a large gap between us in in each. So I'm not super cluster.
Laura Sanchez: My dad works pretty much every day.
Laura Sanchez: I see him the afternoons, but I do enjoy spending a few
Laura Sanchez: Hours talking to him.
Laura Sanchez: And my mom. I think she is one of those sources of my anxiety because I'm
Laura Sanchez: Just living with her has been really hard to grow up. She's, she's a hoarder and living in that environment is just is really stressful and she also has a daycare. So there's always kids here. You know, it's always noisy.
Laura Sanchez: So, and her and I just haven't really gotten along for my adult life since
Laura Sanchez: She's very Catholic and she always pushes she's always pushed out on all of us, but
Laura Sanchez: It's, I don't know. It's just a different. We're just two different people.
margaret johnstone: Mm hmm. Yeah. So sounds like there's a lot of activity going on in your home. And it's not a a peaceful, quiet place UK
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, it's not
margaret johnstone: Yeah.
Laura Sanchez: You caught me on a good day.
Good.
margaret johnstone: Good. Tell me, are you using any birth control.
Laura Sanchez: I am does. You need to know what kind
margaret johnstone: Yeah, you can tell me
Laura Sanchez: It is Dros Dros Cyrano.
Laura Sanchez: OK, so the pill. Okay.
margaret johnstone: And how long have you been on that.
Laura Sanchez: Oh, it's been probably
Laura Sanchez: A little over a year now.
Laura Sanchez: And it's
Laura Sanchez: That's the only type of birth control. Good.
margaret johnstone: Okay. Okay. Good. I'm glad you're taking it.
margaret johnstone: Um, any medical problems ever have a seizure, anything like that.
Laura Sanchez: Um, no.
margaret johnstone: You ever have a head injury ever been knocked unconscious.
No.
margaret johnstone: Um,
margaret johnstone: Any problems with your heart. Any chest pain.
Laura Sanchez: Um, no.
margaret johnstone: And you're breathing problems.
margaret johnstone: You sound pretty healthy
margaret johnstone: Ever having your any surgeries.
No.
Laura Sanchez: I've never broken any bones.
margaret johnstone: Not knowing
margaret johnstone: Or a healthy girl. Do you have a primary care doctor you go to
Laura Sanchez: Um, I think. So the one that was assigned to me when I signed up for Blue Shield.
margaret johnstone: Mm hmm. Good.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, good.
margaret johnstone: For you have a doctor if you have any medical issues come up
margaret johnstone: Yes to and you have go to the dentist. You follow up with dental care at all.
Laura Sanchez: Times at the dentist was last year before my dental plan expired.
Laura Sanchez: So I need to find a new dentist, you
Look good
margaret johnstone: And how about glasses. Do you wear glasses are having problems.
Laura Sanchez: I do wear glasses specifically at night to dry.
Night.
margaret johnstone: Okay. Sometimes the antidepressants can make your vision, a little blurry. Sometimes that goes away after you first started, sometimes it doesn't. So you may need to get your eyes checked later on if you stay on the the Prozac.
Laura Sanchez: Or no way i
Laura Sanchez: Can do that, um, I was going to ask. It may, it may be, I can take melatonin because I have trouble sleeping.
Laura Sanchez: Um, when I was destroyed, Omar. They gave me Benadryl and that helped a little bit
Laura Sanchez: But I don't really want to take Benadryl kind of just want to do like a healthier option.
margaret johnstone: Well, I would try some melatonin. You can take between three and 10 milligrams
margaret johnstone: Okay, you want to take it a few hours before bedtime, actually, because
margaret johnstone: You need it to kick in.
margaret johnstone: Okay. And sometimes that plus the antidepressant should actually help you sleep better to you should notice your sleep regulates while you're taking the Prozac any side effects from the Prozac at all.
Laura Sanchez: Um,
Laura Sanchez: I just noticed that I'm a little tired.
Laura Sanchez: Other than that, no, not really.
Laura Sanchez: Okay, I haven't noticed any anything major besides sleeping being tired.
margaret johnstone: Okay. And so what you should notice is that the tarnish to decrease that feeling also
Laura Sanchez: Okay.
margaret johnstone: To feel your energies. Okay.
margaret johnstone: Tony, you said your sister was on on antidepressant.
Laura Sanchez: You know which one she takes she's on three different kinds. She actually told me two days ago.
Laura Sanchez: At not, I can't remember which one, but she's tried three different kind
Laura Sanchez: Because Prozac and another one didn't work for her.
margaret johnstone: Okay, okay. Um, so you want to pay attention to make sure this Prozac is working for you because it sounds like you're thinking is pretty clear right now and you're not having any suicidal thoughts.
margaret johnstone: Right. And how would you, how would you say your mood is right now.
Laura Sanchez: Well, today. Welcome, a little startled. Um, I don't know if that's a side effect from from any of the medication, but when I wake up I kind of wake up alarmed and
Laura Sanchez: A little anxious. So then, kind of in the morning. I just felt a little off.
Laura Sanchez: Mm hmm. But now, talking to you. I feel like I'm okay. I'm I'm
Laura Sanchez: Feel like
Laura Sanchez: I'm happy to be having a conversation right now.
margaret johnstone: Good.
margaret johnstone: I'm happy to talk to you too.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, yeah. And it's hard to tell sometimes. So, on a scale from like one to 1010 being the best day of your life and one mean the worst.
margaret johnstone: Put yourself right now.
Laura Sanchez: I'm like, have sex.
Laura Sanchez: Okay, yeah.
Laura Sanchez: I'm doing a little
margaret johnstone: And then see if you can find out what your sisters taking that's working for her, too, because there's a genetic piece to all of these medications and so it's good to know what helps other people in your family.
margaret johnstone: And your family have any mental health issues.
Laura Sanchez: No, I think my mom needs some therapy, but she hasn't been diagnosed with anything.
Laura Sanchez: She hasn't seen topic know besides my sister Lillian she's diagnosed with I believe seasonal depression and anxiety.
Laura Sanchez: I feel like hers is pretty soon, fear and anxiety.
margaret johnstone: Okay. And anybody in your family ever have any issues with alcohol or drugs.
No.
margaret johnstone: Okay. And besides the alcohol. Are you using your. Have you used any other drugs.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, I was smoking marijuana every day.
Laura Sanchez: For the past
Laura Sanchez: Year or so.
Laura Sanchez: But I've been smoking since I was 18 okay
margaret johnstone: Are you smoking now.
Laura Sanchez: No. I'VE BEEN SOBER
Laura Sanchez: For me marijuana for about
Laura Sanchez: Three weeks now.
margaret johnstone: Okay, good.
margaret johnstone: Because again, that can interfere with your mood and interfere with with the anti depressant.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah.
margaret johnstone: A very, very careful.
margaret johnstone: Right, adding any other medications in
margaret johnstone: So right now, how would you say your anxieties.
Laura Sanchez: I'm like I said in the morning. I felt a little anxious right now. It's like a two. It's
Laura Sanchez: To be honest, it's kind of because this is new for me those zoom calls and because it's a little noisy outside my room like a two. Yeah, that's
That's good.
margaret johnstone: Okay, um,
margaret johnstone: halina. Do you have other questions. Thanks.
Helena Rouhe: I think what I would like to know, Laura is I understand your concerns about your living environment and I'm want to be respectful and
Helena Rouhe: I think sounds like you need to get out of that relationship. So it's good that you made that choice and that you changed your living room environment as a result of that, and
Helena Rouhe: Sometimes we stay in things a little bit longer than we want to just because we don't want to go back to other situations and maybe that was part of the stress that you were managing before. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. So what are your options in terms of living environment. Thankfully air families kind of taking you in, you have a place to land, but it doesn't sound like that's kind of an ideal spot for you to spend
Yeah.
Laura Sanchez: It's definitely not the place I want to be, to be honest, I was a lot more comfortable staying at my ex boyfriend, because it's just him and his mom and you know she talked me in
Laura Sanchez: And it was quite there. And I liked it. It was in a private community gated community and I do eventually want to get my own place or move out with with one of my sisters. But as of right now, I'm unemployed and my income isn't stable.
Laura Sanchez: So, for the time being, I'm trying to just kind of make the best out of be being back home.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. Do you have any other family members or friends that you feel comfortable enough to maybe look into that option.
Helena Rouhe: I don't think it sounds like a good idea for you to consider the ex boyfriend in that situation.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, I'm trying. I that I think that was one of the main reason why I spiral a little bit so I blocked him.
Laura Sanchez: I blocked his number. I just don't want to have contact with them. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Sounds like a good choice.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah I know if I do, I would go back
Laura Sanchez: So I have been talking to one of my friends and she suggested that I move in with her.
Laura Sanchez: But we haven't kind of talked about the details. So I have to have a conversation with her about that.
Helena Rouhe: Oh, good for you that you blocked your ex. You know what's done is done. Let's move on. I think that was a really
Helena Rouhe: A choice and good awareness.
Helena Rouhe: In terms of this friend. What's your vibe about her. She kind of she likes to keep things clean and put things together. She a little bit of a messy girl.
Laura Sanchez: No, she's actually super clean. I live when I was 18 it's just she herself.
Laura Sanchez: She lost her boyfriend to lung cancer.
Laura Sanchez: Late last early last year and she's going through her own personal depression and
Laura Sanchez: That's all we kind of gave each other space because you know we understood that we were both
Laura Sanchez: In a dark place. And we were together, we would kind of just always just drink or smoke or
Laura Sanchez: Or try to escape our feelings. So we don't know if it's a good idea.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, maybe not such a great idea. I mean, on some level, right, it would be nice to have your own space and be together and be supportive. But if you
Helena Rouhe: If you have a history of kind of spiraling not in good spaces, you probably need to be a little bit stronger, both individually before you would spend
Helena Rouhe: Significant time together again in the future.
Helena Rouhe: Sounds like you've got really good instincts about paying attention to what's good for you. What's not necessarily good for you. So I would certainly recommend you stay connected to your friend, maybe that's not a good. Maybe there's a reason why you guys been like
Helena Rouhe: Maybe we shouldn't be living together.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: What about any other kind of friends, or maybe an extended family member who you could even like rent a room from or even if it was just to do chores around the house to kind of just give you
Helena Rouhe: Not necessarily move out but just have like a different space to be in for a while.
Laura Sanchez: No, um, my parents.
Laura Sanchez: Are were immigrants here.
Laura Sanchez: So I have a short. I mean, I'm sorry. I have a small family. You're so all of my there's there's just not. No, no, when it can think of. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: So is there a way for you to kind of carve out a little bit of a quieter space in your current situation so that you don't have to kind of have all that shenanigans.
Helena Rouhe: Going on in your head and and
Helena Rouhe: And and around to all the time.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, I've actually kind of had this conversation with my dad so keep it.
Laura Sanchez: Up the canopy outside
Laura Sanchez: Oh yeah, it's, it's a little bit like cluttered because like I said my mom's a hoarder. But I'm trying to clean it up and just kind of making my own space outside
Helena Rouhe: I like is it okay so is it kind of like a 10 like a football 10 or is it a hard world.
Laura Sanchez: No, it's kind of like a patio with me just had. I'm not sure what it's called but it has like a, like, tape the strip on top.
Laura Sanchez: Okay. Mm hmm. And
Helena Rouhe: Is it
Helena Rouhe: Are you staying out there full time or just kind of during the day. Okay.
Laura Sanchez: Oh, no, no. During the day, I have my own room here and my
Laura Sanchez: I have my room organized and I'm here. Most of the time, but I like to
Helena Rouhe: Eat I
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, so he built that for me so I can spend some a little, little alone time out there. It's a little bit off to the side of the house, so it's less
Helena Rouhe: But sounds like your mom at some point, kind of abated that space with some stuff.
Laura Sanchez: Yeah, the whole house or outside of my room. Yes.
Helena Rouhe: But. And what about that canopy space is there is there stuff.
Helena Rouhe: In that space or
Laura Sanchez: I'm working on cleaning it out and just
Helena Rouhe: When you, when you move it. Can you move it to a place where it's not going to find its way back in your cannabis space like
Laura Sanchez: Well, we'll see. I hope not. I think I can make it work. And she's respect for me trying to better myself. So she's, she's trying her best. I know she is even though
Helena Rouhe: Not much. I know she sounds like anxiety runs in your family certainly kind of managing mood stuff and I'm sure I don't have to tell you this but hoarding is certainly a form of managing that and even and they're kind of trapped in their own existence. So
Laura Sanchez: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: It sounds like you're very empathetic and understanding person, which is fantastic but it is hard to live in those situations. So, yeah.
Helena Rouhe: If you can carve out those spaces, literally, so that you can have those spaces. And I think if you can be outside when you're outside or the kids around you or are they in a different area.
Laura Sanchez: Um, yes they are outside New me a lot of them are babies so they mainly stay indoors, but the others are outside playing which I understand. And I like the kids, the kids aren't really a problem with their kids.
Helena Rouhe: And they're loud. Yeah, right. So can you kind of set up a little bit of a
Helena Rouhe: Yes, that's exactly the word I was going to use and then it felt like maybe that was going to be a little harsh, but yeah. Can we kind of put them
Helena Rouhe: Up.
Helena Rouhe: A little bit of a no go zone.
Laura Sanchez: Maybe, definitely. I can maybe go like a little fence at Home Depot or something. I
Helena Rouhe: Believe in
Helena Rouhe: Something that's kind of solid so that they're not like
Helena Rouhe: Peering through those little spots. What are you doing over there. What's going on right
Laura Sanchez: There super noisy and they live around me too, but
Laura Sanchez: My, my dad's pretty open with me, transforming that area to whatever
Helena Rouhe: So maybe you guys can work on that being a bit of a project so that you can have
Helena Rouhe: Your own space where the kids are in your space you have some privacy and
Helena Rouhe: You can either be outside when it's
Helena Rouhe: When it's nice enough to be outside and inside when you need to be inside
Helena Rouhe: Yes. Okay, so I would really advocate for you to do that. It's important when we're feeling overwhelmed by things to start taking
Helena Rouhe: A little bit of our lives back a little bit of ownership and and where we can. And I think you have a really good sense of kind of where you're at, but I
Helena Rouhe: Think it would be important for you to start kind of being a little more firm about this is what my schedule needs to be. I need to eat at this time, keep myself hydrated and
Helena Rouhe: Not taking substances and and have a safe space to be in and with the plan that you're going to start, you know, looking to see what your options are once
Helena Rouhe: Some of the restrictions in the world, start lifting start moving around, or do you have some ideas about getting a job or do you have some places to look, things like that.
Laura Sanchez: Um, well, right now I'm
Laura Sanchez: hoping I get my original job.
Helena Rouhe: Okay.
Laura Sanchez: It was for a general contractor. But I think his plan was to closes doors and
Laura Sanchez: Move and retire to Chile or in July. So I'm not sure what's gonna
Helena Rouhe: You know when I moved to Chile.
Laura Sanchez: That's the only non he tested it and I have a good relationship with my boss but
Laura Sanchez: I don't know.
Yeah.
Laura Sanchez: So if that doesn't work out, one of my neighbors who works for Costco and said, they're always hiring. But right now to be completely honest, I'm, I'm scared to go outside. I'm scared to like
Laura Sanchez: go grocery shopping. Sometimes it's it's it
Laura Sanchez: Brings me a lot of anxiousness and
Laura Sanchez: Okay, and just being around a lot of people is
Laura Sanchez: Something that
Laura Sanchez: You. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: That's fair. I think it's okay for you to take a couple of weeks to just kind of let the medicine kick in and get you stable. And do you have any outside clinicians that you're going to be working with. Are you okay with working with us.
Laura Sanchez: I don't, and you're working with both
Helena Rouhe: Okay. So Margaret has a group on Fridays at 10am and we would have you join that group and then
Helena Rouhe: If the person who helps lead that group is Serena and she's lovely and I think that the two of you would get along really well. So she would work with you in terms of individual therapy and kind of just working on coping skills.
Helena Rouhe: You know, just the stuff that I've been talking about, like, let's make your life a little more user friendly for you and then start creating some small goals that feel manageable and then kind of build from there.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, and then Margaret will work with you in terms of medicine and and how your overall feeling medically and chime in. I'm sure on how you can manage your mood and all of that. Does that sound like it would be a good plan for you.
Helena Rouhe: Yes. Okay, great. Mark, do you want to start this Friday or would you like her to start in a week. What do you think
margaret johnstone: I think about a week because the Prozac slow acting. Okay. But I want you to pay attention to your sleep. How many hours you're getting. And if the melatonin and helps or not, and also find out the names of the drugs, your sisters taking WHICH ONES SHE FINDS really helpful.
Laura Sanchez: Okay. All right.
Laura Sanchez: Okay. Sounds good. Well, I can email on for ya grip on Friday.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so I am I'm letting RJ know right now she's the person you've been working with as far as getting going with our program and then
Helena Rouhe: We may have you just for the practice of it. Start group this Friday. If we've got other people going just to get us to the habit of joining group.
Helena Rouhe: And then you can let Margaret know if there any updates that you have as far as your sisters meds and all that kind of stuff when we're a group we have
Helena Rouhe: At the most 10 people in group, but typically it's more like eight
Helena Rouhe: And maybe a leaf would be a smaller group because this group is just getting going. And people do share kind of how things are going for them.
Helena Rouhe: What their medications are doing from them. We share that at a group level because we expect that people are going to keep what happens in group confidential.
Helena Rouhe: And I also think that it's helpful when you're meeting with people who are have similar struggles that you kind of hear what goes well for them and what doesn't go well for them because I think we learn from each other about
Helena Rouhe: Different coping skills and it's helpful to understand that you're not alone and kind of like an Aurora. I know it can feel a little bit lonely, but sometimes there's some comfort knowing that you're not by yourself in these struggles, did you experience that when you went to
Helena Rouhe: Bora.
Laura Sanchez: Um, yeah, I just feel like I didn't relate to anyone specifically
Laura Sanchez: There. Um, but I liked hearing everybody out and I like okay
Laura Sanchez: You know, train young
Laura Sanchez: I did. I liked talking to other people about their issues.
Helena Rouhe: So the good news is, is that you don't have day in day out with these people. It's just a group
Helena Rouhe: It's one hour week and you can kind of hear what their things are what's going on for them. And then what's going on for you. But then that's why we do the individual sessions so that you have more one on one time. That would be something you would do is Serena so
Helena Rouhe: And that'll be on a different day than Friday because we try and keep that spread out.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so I'll have our Jane reach out to you, and she'll follow up with you and why they're start group this Friday or next Friday and
Helena Rouhe: That's kind of our program. Do you have any other questions or concerns for us. Anything else you feel like, hey, now that we're talking, there's this thing I should show you
Laura Sanchez: No, not really. I'm
Laura Sanchez: I think, like I said, it's just
Laura Sanchez: A little bit hard for me to open up about my feelings, but I'm working on it. I'm trying to be a little bit more open
Laura Sanchez: And other than that. I'm Oh my, my appetite has been kind of all over the place. I'm sometimes I'm really hungry and sometimes I'm not hungry at all, but I try. I'm trying to
Laura Sanchez: Eat at least three times a day and keep it. Keep it normal
margaret johnstone: Yeah, good.
Helena Rouhe: For you.
margaret johnstone: Good. And then focus on a balanced diet. If you can, yeah.
Laura Sanchez: Okay, I'm
Laura Sanchez: Okay, yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, we'll plan on having you join that group on Friday and our general reach out to you. And I think we're good to go. Unless you head out for the day. Take care of yourself.
Laura Sanchez: Okay. Thank you guys so much for
Laura Sanchez: You
Nice to meet you.
margaret johnstone: See you soon.
Laura Sanchez: Bye.
Bye bye.
Helena Rouhe: I mean, I'm always amazed at how people can be so insightful and aware and recognize what their needs are needing to do and they just need like the most baby of nuggets. Sometimes it's just kind of incredible
Helena Rouhe: I mean, there are certainly other people who live
margaret johnstone: Yes.
Helena Rouhe: You know willingness to know understanding and, you know,
Helena Rouhe: Do that for you. So
margaret johnstone: Got a difficult home situation.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah yeah
margaret johnstone: Lots going on there.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, so, um, yeah. Projects kind of slow acting and
margaret johnstone: And if it doesn't, isn't the right fit. And maybe her sisters on something that will work.
Helena Rouhe: Right.
margaret johnstone: I'd like to give it you know
To yeah
Helena Rouhe: Totally. I was just thinking to get her kind of in the habit, we might get her starting a group. And when I
Helena Rouhe: Pulled up your group just to confirm the time I noticed nobody else's aside. So I've already included you on an email with and Serena to say where Margaret's patients and why aren't we getting this group started so
Helena Rouhe: We'll get that going. So that you can have that as a regular thing.
margaret johnstone: And I just saw. Okay, I'll just before this will
margaret johnstone: Okay, perfect for the groups.
Helena Rouhe: Okay. All right.
margaret johnstone: Good another person.
Helena Rouhe: Good, and you can feel free to add to that particular email and I'll just make sure you do you know who your care navigator is who you're supposed to kind of talk to about that. And if you're not sure it's okay because I can never keep anybody
margaret johnstone: Eco eco
Helena Rouhe: Oh, I go, okay. I go, yeah, no, it's okay, I picture everybody's names.
Helena Rouhe: including my own.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. So yeah, I go, I was fantastic show
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, she's great. So go ahead. Anytime you have any questions or concerns about, hey. Who's in my group or what's going on. Feel free to let her know and she can follow up all that
margaret johnstone: Okay cuz yeah the groups are still a problem for me to just to track and make sure I've got the right number in the right place.
Helena Rouhe: You found it, you found us.
margaret johnstone: We found you.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so you should have a fairly healthy group size then this coming Friday. So, but we'll make sure that that's all going and moving forward. So
margaret johnstone: Yeah, okay. It'll it's it's going. And I feel like if I really like your patients were getting because they're from all over
Helena Rouhe: And they are
margaret johnstone: Really wide variety of people
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. Yeah, it is. It's kind of fun.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, I love that it's some it's really a challenge. And it's been you really get to see what's going on in this country. Oh.
Helena Rouhe: I now.
Helena Rouhe: I now. Don't even get me started. It's all I can do to just keep my mouth shut. I'm so grateful for the mute button. I feel like I need that in life.
Helena Rouhe: Myself on mute.
margaret johnstone: Your ranch behind you.
Helena Rouhe: Yes, that's my ranch. Amazing.
margaret johnstone: Gorgeous.
margaret johnstone: I know that. Did you just take a picture and blow it up.
Helena Rouhe: No, I took a picture and then I stuck it on so I don't have a green screen, which is why I'm pixelated and everyone so all my hair disappears and
Helena Rouhe: I have a green screen in my other office. I'm just waiting for some equipment to come so that I can set it up in there. But yeah, you can go into your settings in zoom
Helena Rouhe: And it's like the little gear symbol on the when you
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. And then when you click on that, it'll actually has a little button that says virtual backgrounds.
Helena Rouhe: And you can
Helena Rouhe: Choose from what they already have, or you can add one of your own images.
Helena Rouhe: Hmm, yeah.
margaret johnstone: Way.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so it's fun to have something that's a little bit more personal and
Helena Rouhe: You know, give somebody a talking point. It can also be a bit of a distraction. I had one of my patients have. They were like, what are you doing are you flying. And I was like, let me just go ahead and take this off, I'll just have my
Helena Rouhe: Shelves in the background. I don't want to be distracting to you right now.
Helena Rouhe: Right clouds. Wow. I'm not okay. We'll just
Helena Rouhe: Remove
Helena Rouhe: Too much of a distraction.
margaret johnstone: Picture. I love it.
margaret johnstone: You know, lovely, lovely. So yeah, and I think it's very relaxing.
Well, good.
Helena Rouhe: I focus on that instead of worrying about how everyone is since this self destructing planet that we're all living. And so, wow.
margaret johnstone: This little gals been pretty depressed for a long time. Um, and, you know, her suicidal thinking for a couple years is pretty intense.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. So sounds like she's the contracting for safety right now and that
Helena Rouhe: Is not making any plans or decisions and good for her that she went got the help that she did so hopefully now we can stabilize. I don't think she's ever gotten help before so
Helena Rouhe: You have the opportunity to make a difference, I think,
margaret johnstone: Yeah, so if somebody like that. I would have trouble particularly right out of the hospital. I would make them more, you know, low to moderate
margaret johnstone: Kind of in that range.
margaret johnstone: Mostly because of the suicidal stuff.
Yeah.
margaret johnstone: And so I don't think there's a choice for low to moderate but
Helena Rouhe: I agree.
Helena Rouhe: I agree. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Just given the circumstances.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, and I find a lot of people fall in there that I'm seeing that are there, you know, they're not eminently suicidal, but they've got some high risk issues and
Yeah.
margaret johnstone: So things to be aware of, I don't know, I'm
Helena Rouhe: Telling
margaret johnstone: That's the way life goes
margaret johnstone: Nobody falls in all the boxes.
Helena Rouhe: Now, now it's not clean like that are a bit messy.
margaret johnstone: Yeah, yeah. Lena, thank you so much.
Helena Rouhe: Thank you. Have a good day.
margaret johnstone: You too. Bye bye.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, bye.